
=pod

=head1 NAME

profile - An ANSI C class to manage the profile database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <stdio.h>
 #include <errno.h>

 #include "rms.h"
 #include "when.h"
 #include "finds.h"
 #include "files.h"
 #include "errors.h"
 #include "tracer.h"
 #include "profile.h"
 #include "misc/misc.h"

 rms_t *profiles;
 tracer_t *dump;
 errors_t *errs;

 int display(profile_base_t *profile) {

     printf("---------------------------\n");
     printf("name       : %s\n", profile->name);
     printf("address    : %s\n", profile->addr);
     printf("city       : %s\n", profile->city);
     printf("zip        : %s\n", profile->zip);
     printf("phone      : %s\n", profile->phone);
     printf("email      : %s\n", profile->email);
     printf("revision   : %d\n", profile->revision);
     printf("description: %s\n", profile->description);

     return OK;

 }

 int capture(rms_t *self, void *data, queue *results) {

     int stat = OK;
     profile_base_t *ondisk = NULL;
     profile_search_t *result = NULL;

     when_error_in {

         ondisk = (profile_base_t *)data;

         errno = 0;
         result = calloc(1, sizeof(profile_search_t));
         if (result == NULL) cause_error(errno);

         strncpy(result->name, ondisk->name, LEN_NAME);
         result->record = self->record;

         stat = que_push_head(results, result);
         check_status(stat, QUE_OK, E_NOQUEUE);

         exit_when;

     } use {

         stat = ERR;
         capture_trace(dump);
         clear_error();

     } end_when;
    
     return stat;

 }

 int dump_trace(char *buffer) {

     fprintf(stderr, "%s\n", buffer);

     return OK;

 }

 int setup(void) {

     int stat = OK;
     int timeout = 1;
     int retries = 30;
     int records = 256;
     char *path = "../../data/";

     when_error_in {

         errs = errors_create();
         check_creation(errs);

         dump = tracer_create(errs);
         check_creation(dump);

         profiles = profile_create(path, records, retries, timeout, dump);
         check_creation(profiles);

         exit_when;

     } use {

         stat = ERR;
         capture_trace(dump);
         clear_error();

     } end_when;

     return stat;

 }

 void cleanup(void) {

     profile_destroy(profiles);
     tracer_destroy(dump);
     errors_destroy(errs);

 }

 int main(int argc, char **argv) {

     int stat = OK;
     queue results;
     profile_base_t ondisk;
     profile_search_t *result = NULL;

     when_error_in {

         stat = que_init(&results);
         check_status(stat, QUE_OK, E_INVOPS);

         stat = setup();
         check_status(stat, OK, E_INVOPS);

         stat = profile_open(profiles);
         check_return(stat, profiles);

         stat = profile_search(profiles, NULL, 0, find_profiles_all, capture, &results);
         check_return(stat, profiles);

         printf("\nfound %d profiles\n", que_size(&results));

         while ((result = que_pop_head(&results))) {

             stat = profile_get(profiles, result->record, &ondisk);
             check_return(stat, profiles);

             display(&ondisk);
             free(result);

         }

         stat = profile_close(profiles);
         check_return(stat, profiles);

         exit_when;

     } use {

         capture_trace(dump);
         tracer_dump(dump, dump_trace);
         clear_error();

     } end_when;

     cleanup();

     return 0;

 }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class implements the profile database. This is an extension of the rms
class.

Records that are deleted are not removed from the database. They 
are marked as deleted. They are reused. This is used to keep track of
a user profile. Profiles are optional.

The database consists of these two files:

 profiles.dat    - the actual data
 profiles.seq    - where the last profile number is stored

This library is a class. It is extensible and overridable. It also makes 
use of the L<rms(3)>, L<errors(3)> and L<tracer(3)> classes for error handling and 
reporting. 

The files profile.c and profile.h define the class. 

=over 4

=item B<profile.h>

This defines the interface to the class. 

=item B<profile.c> 

This implements the interface.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 I<rms_t *profile_create(char *path, int records, int retries, int timeout, tracer_t *dump)>

This method initializes the class. 

=head2 I<int profile_destroy(rms_t *self)>

This destroys the object. 

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to the rms_t object.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_override(rms_t *self, item_list_t *items)>

This method allows you to override methods. 

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to the rms_t object.

=item B<items>

An array of item_list_t data types. The array is 0 terminated.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_compare(rms_t *this, rms_t *that)>

This method allows you to compare one rms_t object to another. 

=over 4

=item B<this>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<that>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=back

=head2 I<char *profile_version(rms_t *self)>

This method returns the version of the library. The version number
follows the guidelines from L<semver.org|https://semver.org/>.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to the rms_t object.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_open(rms_t *self)>

This method allows access to the profiles database. 

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_close(rms_t *self)>

This method closes access to the profiles database.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_add(rms_t *self, profile_base_t *profile)>

This method adds a profile to the profiles database. 

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<profile>

A pointer to a profile_base_t type to write to the database.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_del(rms_t *self, int index)>

This method deletes a profile from the profiles database. The record is not
removed from the database. It is marked as "deleted". The record is
not reused.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<index>

The index to the profiles record within the database.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_get(rms_t *self, int index, profile_base_t *profile)>

This method gets the indicated profile.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<index>

The profile to get.

=item B<profile>

A pointer to a profile_base_t type to write the data too.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_put(rms_t *self, int index, profile_base_t *profile)>

This method updates a profile.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<index>

The profile to update.

=item B<profile>

A pointer to a profile_base_t type.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_find(rms_t *self, void *data, int len, int (*compare)(void *, int, profile_base_t *), off_t *recnum)>

This method will return the first profile that matches the comparison.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<data>

A pointer to the data to use for comparison.

=item B<len>

The length of the data.

=item B<compare>

A comparison function used to match the data to a profile_base_t type.
This should return TRUE on match, otherwise FALSE.

=item B<recnum>

A pointer to write the record number of the profile that matches. A 0 is 
returned if nothing matches.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_search(rms_t *self, void *data, int len, int (*compare)(void *, int, profile_base_t *), int (*capture)(rms_t *, void *, queue *), queue *)>

This method will return all the profiles that matches the comparison.

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item B<data>

A pointer to the data to use for the comparison.

=item B<len>

The length of the data.

=item B<compare>

A comparison function used to match the data to a profile_base_t type.
This should return TRUE on match, otherwise FALSE.

=item B<capture> 

A capture function that is used to retrieve the matching records. It
should return OK on success or ERR if not.

=item B<results>

A pointer to write the list of profile_search_t types. This list may be empty if 
nothing matches.

=back

=head2 I<int profile_capture(rms_t *self, void *data, queue *results)>

A default capture function. 

=over 4

=item B<self>

A pointer to a rms_t object.

=item  B<data>

A pointer to a profile_base_t type.

=item B<results>

A queue to write the results too. These would consist of profile_search_t
types.

=back

=head1 RETURNS

The method profile_create() returns a pointer to a rms_t object. 
All other methods return either OK on success or ERR on failure. The 
extended error description can be returned with object_get_error().

=head1 BUILDING

The following assumes a GNU/GCC build environment.

=over 4

=item make

Builds the module and provides an object archive.

=item make clean

Removes cruft from the directory.

=item make man

Builds the man page.

=item make shared

Builds the module and provides a shared library.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<object(3)>

=item L<rms(3)>

=item L<user(3)>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Kevin L. Esteb, E<lt>kevin@kesteb.usE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2021 by Kevin L. Esteb

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies. The
author makes no representations about the suitability of this software
for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.

=cut

