
=pod

=head1 NAME

qwk-load - load a qwk packet into the xa-bbs message store

=head1 SYNOPSIS

qwk-load [-?|-h|-H] 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is used load a qwk message packet into the xa-bbs message
store. The qwk conference is checked against the rooms of the bbs. If
a room dosen't match, the conference is skipped. 

The file B<msgdupes.idx> located in the data directory, is used for duplicate 
message detection. Duplicate detection is based on the msgid of the message. 
The msgid is a Synchronet BBS QWK networking extension. Additional extensions 
are discussed here: L<QWK Extensions|http://wiki.synchro.net/ref:qwknet>.

All output goes to stdout, errors go to stderr.

=head1 OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item B<-?|h|H>

Output simple help text.

=item B<-d <directory>>

The directory that the files reside in. This needs to be terminated
with a trailing "/". The default, is the current directory.

=back

=head1 EXIT CODES

 0 - success
 1 - failure

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<qwk-import|qwk-import>

=item L<qwk-dump|qwk-dump>

=item L<room-create|room-create>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Kevin L. Esteb, E<lt>kevin@kesteb.usE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2021 by Kevin L. Esteb

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies. The
author makes no representations about the suitability of this software
for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.

=cut

