
=pod

=head1 NAME

room-create - configure rooms from a config file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

room-create [-?|-h|-H] 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is used to read a configuration file and configure rooms 
within xa-bbs. This dosen't extend the room datastore, and it can't be 
used to modify previously configured rooms. All output goes to stdout, 
errors go to stderr.

=head1 OPTIONS AND ARGUMENTS

=over 4

=item B<-?|h|H>

Output simple help text.

=item B<-f <file>>

The file that holds the configuration settings.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The configuration has the following format:

    #                       - line separator
    2001                    - conference number
    General                 - name
    DOVE-Net General        - description
    true                    - wither it is networked (true/false)
    
You may have as many of these as needed. If you overflow the room
datastore a suitable error is returned. 

=head1 EXIT CODES

 0 - success
 1 - failure

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item L<qwk-import|qwk-import>

=item L<qwk-load|qwk-load>

=item L<qwk-dump|qwk-dump>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Kevin L. Esteb, E<lt>kevin@kesteb.usE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2021 by Kevin L. Esteb

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that this copyright notice appears in all copies. The
author makes no representations about the suitability of this software
for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied
warranty.

=cut

